# 3. Resource configs and properties
Properties usually declare things about your project resources; configs usually go the extra step of telling dbt how to build those resources in your warehouse.

Depending on the resource type, configurations can be defined:
- Using a config() Jinja macro, within a model/snapshot/test ".sql" file
- Using a config property in a ".yml" file
- From the "dbt_project.yml" file, under the corresponding resource key

Some configs can be overridden, some can be additive:
- `tags` are additive. If a model has some tags configured in dbt_project.yml, and more tags applied in its .sql file, the final set of tags will include all of them.
- `meta` dictionaries are merged (a more specific key-value pair replaces a less specific value with the same key)
- `pre-hook`/`post-hook` are additive.

Resource path is the nested dictionary keys, that provide the path to a directory of that resource type, or a single instance of that resource type by its name.

## General properties
### columns
It is the child property of models/sources/seeds/snapshots/analyses. 

Tests can be applied to columns. 

### config
The child property of models/seeds/snapshots/tests/sources/metrics/exposures. 

### constraints
The platform will perform additional validation on data, as it is being populated in a new table, or inserted into a preexisting table. If the validation fails, the table creation or update fails, the operation is rolled back, and you will see an error message.

Can apply PK, expression, unique, not null, foreign_key, etc. 

### deprecation_date
Provides a mechanism to communicate plans and timelines for long-term support and maintenance, and to facilitate change management.

### description
A user-defined description. 

### latest_version
The latest version of this model.

### include
The specification of which columns are defined in a model's top-level columns property, to include or exclude in a versioned implementation of that model.

### quote
Used to enable or disable quoting for column names.

### Data tests
Defines assertions about a column, table, or view. 

Generic tests: not_null, unique, accepted_values, relationships. 

Can apply to a expression. 

Can use custom generic test. 

### versions
skipped. 

## General configs
### access
The access level of the model.

private/protected/public. 

### alias
A custom alias for a model/seed/snapshot/test. 

### database
Specify a custom database for a model/seed/test, instead of the target database. 

### enabled
Enable/disable a resource (model/seed/snapshot/test/source/metric/exposure). 

### full_refresh
Optionally set a resource to always or never full-refresh, for large datasets. If set false for a model, `dbt run --full-refresh` will no longer invoke a full-refresh on it. 

### contract
When the contract configuration is enforced, dbt will ensure that your model's returned dataset exactly matches the attributes you have defined in yaml. 

### grants
Manages grants to the object you're producing with dbt. For example, which role can select from the object.  

### group
Assigning a group to a resource. When a resource is grouped, dbt will allow it to reference private models within the same group.

### docs
Provide documentation-specific configuration to models.

### persist_docs
Optionally persist resource descriptions as column/relation comments, in the database.

### pre-hook & post-hook
A SQL statement (or list of SQL statements) to be run before or after a model, seed, or snapshot is built.

### schema
Specify a custom schema for a group of models, or one model. Also applies to seed and test. 

### tags
Apply a tag (or list of tags) to a resource. These tags can be used as part of the resource selection syntax. 

### meta
Used to set metadata for a resource. This metadata is compiled into the manifest.json file generated by dbt, and is viewable in the auto-generated documentation.

### Advanced usage
Some configurations may contain characters (e.g. dashes) that cannot be parsed as a jinja argument. Can pass a dictionary of key-vals instead. 

### Using the + prefix
The leading + is only required, when you need to disambiguate between resource paths and configs. for example when:
- A config accepts a dictionary as its inputs, e.g., the persist_docs config.
- A config shares a key with part of a resource path, e.g., if you had a directory of models named tags.

## For models
Models properties can be declared in ".yml" files in your "models/" directory.

You can name these files "whatever_you_want.yml", and nest them arbitrarily deeply in subfolders within the "models/" directory.

## For seeds
Seed properties can be declared in ".yml" files under a `seed` key.

We recommend that you put them in the "seeds/" directory. You can name these files "whatever_you_want.yml", and nest them arbitrarily deeply in subfolders within that directory.

You can optionally specify the database type of columns in a seed, by providing a dictionary where the keys are the column names, and the values are a valid datatype. Use this configuration only when required, i.e. when the type inference is not working as expected.

You can customize the delimiter in a seed. Default is comma. 

## For snapshots
You can create your own snapshot strategy, other than the existing timestamp and check. 

## For tests
By default, the count of rows is returned by the test query: the default value of `fail_calc` is `count(*)`. But it can also be a custom calculation.

You can limit the number of failures returned by a test query. 

You can configure tests to return warnings instead of errors, or to make the test status conditional on the number of failures returned. 

You can set to store failures in the database. 

You can also use where clause in tests, such as only testing past 3 days of data for uniqueness. 

## For sources
## For analyses
## For exposures
## For macros
